<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="ai_tool_usage">
    <title>AI Tool Usage</title>
    <conbody>
        <section id="section_g2k_5lc_1jc">
            <title>Tools Used</title>
            <p>I used the following AI tools during this assignment:<ul id="ul_ewg_xlc_1jc">
                    <li><b>**ChatGPT**</b> – used for planning the assignment, setting up the
                        Docusaurus framework, structuring documentation, refining wording, and
                        troubleshooting configuration issues.</li>
                    <li><b>**Claude**</b> – used for alternative phrasing, tone refinement, and
                        simplifying technical explanations.</li>
                    <li><b>**Gemini**</b> – used to compare responses, validate alternate wording,
                        and explore different ways to present concise product messagingI used more
                        than one AI tool intentionally. This helped me compare outputs, identify
                        generic wording, and refine the content instead of relying on a single first
                        draft.</li>
                </ul></p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_pvn_1mc_1jc">
            <title>How AI Was Used During the Assignment</title>
            <p>AI was used in two main ways:</p>
            <ol id="ol_a2s_bmc_1jc">
                <li><b>Content support:</b>
                    <ol id="ol_kqp_cmc_1jc">
                        <li>drafting feature documentation</li>
                        <li>refining release notes</li>
                        <li>improving UI messaging</li>
                        <li>structuring the docs-as-code workflow</li>
                    </ol></li>
                <li><b>Implementation support:</b><ol id="ol_xlq_fmc_1jc">
                        <li>setting up Docusaurus from scratch</li>
                        <li>fixing environment issues with Node, npm, and PowerShell</li>
                        <li>correcting <codeph>sidebars.js</codeph>,
                                <codeph>docusaurus.config.js</codeph>, and CSS</li>
                        <li>removing default Docusaurus template content and adapting the site for
                            the assignment</li>
                    </ol></li>
            </ol>
            <p>This was useful because the assignment required both content creation and
                documentation-site setup.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_kxv_4mc_1jc">
            <title>Example Prompts and Observations</title>
            <p>
                <ul id="ul_w1y_pmc_1jc">
                    <li><b>Bar Chart Feature Documentation</b><ul id="ul_qk5_rmc_1jc">
                            <li>Prompt used: Write a user-facing topic for Bar charts. The
                                documentation should be clear, simple, and well-structured. Explain
                                what a bar chart is and when to use it. Document how to add a bar
                                chart, configure basic data such as X-axis and Y-axis, and customize
                                it at a high level. Do not invent features or behaviors not shown in
                                the video or screenshots.</li>
                            <li>What worked: <ul id="ul_tcd_5mc_1jc">
                                    <li>It helped create an initial structure quickly</li>
                                    <li>It gave a usable flow for:<ul id="ul_emr_5mc_1jc">
                                            <li>overview</li>
                                            <li>when to use it</li>
                                            <li>add the chart</li>
                                            <li>configure X-axis and Y-axis</li>
                                            <li>customize at a high level</li>
                                        </ul></li>
                                </ul></li>
                            <li>What didn't work:<ul id="ul_gm2_1nc_1jc">
                                    <li>Early outputs sometimes added assumptions beyond the
                                        screenshots</li>
                                    <li>Some responses sounded generic and not product-specific</li>
                                    <li>Some wording described features more broadly than the
                                        assignment allowed</li>
                                </ul></li>
                            <li>How was the prompt was improved: The prompt was refined to make the
                                constraint much stricter - Only use information visible in the
                                provided screenshots and video. Do not invent additional chart
                                behavior, advanced settings, or unsupported workflows.</li>
                            <li>Why this refinement mattered: The assignment explicitly required
                                accuracy based only on the supplied material. This prompt change
                                helped keep the content grounded in evidence.</li>
                        </ul></li>
                    <li><b>Release Notes</b><ul id="ul_olv_jnc_1jc">
                            <li>Prompt used: Write a short release note announcing the new Bar Chart
                                added to the list of charts. Focus on user value, keep it concise,
                                and make it sound polished without becoming overly promotional.</li>
                            <li>What worked: <ul id="ul_plv_jnc_1jc">
                                    <li>It helped generate concise announcement-style text
                                        quickly.</li>
                                    <li>It surfaced multiple tone options, from formal to slightly
                                        more modern.</li>
                                </ul></li>
                            <li>What didn't work:<ul id="ul_rlv_jnc_1jc">
                                    <li>Some initial outputs were too plain and lacked energy.</li>
                                    <li>Other outputs became too generic or sounded like marketing
                                        copy.</li>
                                    <li>A few versions did not reflect the actual assignment context
                                        strongly enough.</li>
                                </ul></li>
                            <li>How was the prompt was improved: The prompt was refined to better
                                control tone - Write a concise release note for the new Bar Chart in
                                Apps Studio. Focus on practical user value such as comparing values
                                across categories and spotting differences more easily. Keep the
                                tone polished and product-facing, but not promotional.</li>
                            <li>Why this refinement mattered: This helped produce a release note
                                that felt more thoughtful and engaging while still staying
                                appropriate for product documentation.</li>
                        </ul></li>
                </ul>
                <ul>
                    <li><b>UI Messaging</b><ul id="ul_kr4_rnc_1jc">
                            <li>Prompt used: Improve the user-facing messages in the provided
                                screenshots. Make the copy clearer, more concise, and more helpful.
                                Keep important warnings intact and align the wording with UX writing
                                best practices.</li>
                            <li>What worked: <ul id="ul_lr4_rnc_1jc">
                                    <li>It helped improve clarity and sentence structure.</li>
                                    <li>It identified wording problems such as grammar issues and
                                        inconsistent terminology.</li>
                                    <li>It suggested more direct action-oriented language.</li>
                                </ul></li>
                            <li>What didn't work:<ul id="ul_mr4_rnc_1jc">
                                    <li>Some versions over-simplified the warning text.</li>
                                    <li>Some suggestions removed useful context from the modal and
                                        form copy.</li>
                                    <li>A few outputs did not preserve example values or
                                        field-specific guidance shown in the screenshot.</li>
                                </ul></li>
                            <li>How was the prompt was improved: The prompt was refined to preserve
                                important context - Keep the warning and field-level guidance
                                intact. Improve clarity and conciseness without removing critical
                                information shown in the screenshot. Retain example values where
                                they help users understand what to enter.</li>
                            <li>Why this refinement mattered: This made the UI copy more useful and
                                realistic, especially for the Azure Blob connection screen where the
                                example value and exact field guidance mattered.</li>
                        </ul></li>
                    <li><b>Docs-as-Code Workflow</b><ul id="ul_z5z_b4c_1jc">
                            <li>Prompt used: Write a complete step-by-step docs-as-code workflow for
                                documenting a feature called Smart Filters from the moment the Jira
                                ticket is received until the documentation is live in production.
                                Include branching, authoring, pull requests, validation, review, and
                                publishing.</li>
                            <li>What worked: <ul id="ul_avz_b4c_1jc">
                                    <li>It helped generate a complete lifecycle quickly.</li>
                                    <li>It covered the expected docs-as-code mechanics well.</li>
                                    <li>It included realistic steps such as staging review,
                                        branching, commit workflow, PR review, validation, and
                                        production publishing.</li>
                                </ul></li>
                            <li>What didn't work:<ul id="ul_bvz_b4c_1jc">
                                    <li>The first version was too long for a Docusaurus
                                        documentation page.</li>
                                    <li>Some steps were too detailed for the assignment format.</li>
                                    <li>It needed tightening to feel readable inside the
                                        documentation site.</li>
                                </ul></li>
                            <li>How was the prompt was improved: The prompt was refined to control
                                length and readability - Shorten the docs-as-code workflow to 15–18
                                steps without losing the full process. Keep it structured,
                                practical, and suitable for inclusion in a Docusaurus documentation
                                page.</li>
                            <li>Why this refinement mattered: This helped create a version that
                                still demonstrated process maturity while being easier to read in
                                the final submission.</li>
                        </ul></li>
                    <li><b>Docusaurus Setup and Troubleshooting</b><ul id="ul_g2q_j4c_1jc">
                            <li>Prompt used: Help me get started with Docusaurus from scratch to
                                end. I have already created the output repository and removed the
                                docs and src folders. Guide me step by step and help me fix any
                                setup issues.</li>
                            <li>It supported fixing:<ul id="ul_pcf_n4c_1jc">
                                    <li>missing Node installation</li>
                                    <li>PowerShell execution issues</li>
                                    <li><codeph>npm</codeph> path problems</li>
                                    <li>Docusaurus scaffold limitations in a non-empty folder</li>
                                    <li>sidebar and config errors</li>
                                    <li>default template cleanup</li>
                                    <li>homepage and CSS updates</li>
                                </ul></li>
                            <li>What didn't work:<ul id="ul_i2q_j4c_1jc">
                                    <li>Some steps needed to be adapted to the actual machine
                                        setup.</li>
                                    <li>A few fixes had to be refined after real errors
                                        appeared.</li>
                                    <li>The setup process required repeated adjustment based on
                                        local environment behavior.</li>
                                </ul></li>
                            <li>How was the prompt was improved: As issues appeared, the prompts
                                became more specific, for example:<ul id="ul_qcw_s4c_1jc">
                                    <li>explain this exact terminal error</li>
                                    <li>fix this <codeph>docusaurus.config.js</codeph> problem</li>
                                    <li>remove the default blog and tutorial content</li>
                                    <li>keep the dark mode toggle but remove unwanted starter
                                        elements</li>
                                    <li>update the homepage to reflect assignment content instead of
                                        default Docusaurus cards</li>
                                </ul></li>
                            <li>Why this refinement mattered: This made the AI support far more
                                useful because the guidance moved from generic setup advice to
                                issue-specific troubleshooting.</li>
                        </ul></li>
                </ul>
            </p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_b5c_w4c_1jc">
            <title>Challenges Encountered While Using AI</title>
            <p>The most useful lesson from this assignment was that AI worked best when the prompt
                was <b>specific, constrained, and grounded in the real task</b>.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_d3l_x4c_1jc">
            <title>Challenges that came up</title>
            <p>
                <ul id="ul_kly_y4c_1jc">
                    <li><b>Generic responses:</b> Some early outputs sounded correct but were too
                        broad or template-like.</li>
                    <li><b>Assumptions beyond source material:</b> For the feature documentation
                        task, AI sometimes described functionality not clearly visible in the
                        screenshots or video.</li>
                    <li><b>Too much detail:</b> For the docs-as-code workflow, the first outputs
                        were complete but too long for the final Docusaurus page.</li>
                    <li><b>Implementation vs. content mismatch:</b> Some setup suggestions needed
                        adjustment once real Docusaurus, Node, PowerShell, and configuration errors
                        appeared.</li>
                    <li><b>Template leftovers:</b> During Docusaurus setup, default tutorial
                        content, blog content, and homepage elements had to be removed manually even
                        after the framework was working.</li>
                </ul>
            </p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_uww_dpc_1jc">
            <title>Manual Edits Made</title>
            <p>All AI-generated output was manually reviewed and revised before being added to the
                final deliverables.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_mxw_2pc_1jc">
            <title>Key manual edits included</title>
            <p>
                <ul id="ul_y4q_fpc_1jc">
                    <li><b>Removing unsupported assumptions:</b> Any content not directly supported
                        by the screenshots, video, or assignment instructions was removed.</li>
                    <li><b>Aligning with the actual UI:</b> Labels, steps, and wording were adjusted
                        to match what was visible in the product screenshots.</li>
                    <li><b>Shortening content for readability:</b> Long AI-generated sections were
                        edited to fit the Docusaurus page structure and improve scannability.</li>
                    <li><b>Refining tone:</b> Some outputs were too generic, too formal, or too
                        promotional. These were rewritten to sound more like polished product
                        documentation.</li>
                    <li><b>Improving structure:</b> Content was reorganized into a clearer sequence
                        so that each page felt intentional and easy to navigate.</li>
                    <li><b>Fixing technical setup manually:</b> Even when AI suggested the right
                        direction, actual implementation still required manual updates to:<ul
                            id="ul_zp4_lpc_1jc">
                            <li><codeph>sidebars.js</codeph></li>
                            <li><codeph>docusaurus.config.js</codeph></li>
                            <li><codeph>custom.css</codeph></li>
                            <li>homepage content</li>
                            <li>template cleanup</li>
                        </ul></li>
                </ul>
            </p>
        </section>
    </conbody>
</concept>
