<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="note_upgrade_instructional_video">
    <title>Note Upgrade Instructional Video</title>
    <shortdesc>This topic provides an instructional video for upgrading a Note in Lyric Studio and describes the approach used to create the video, including planning, scripting, visual design, and editing.</shortdesc>
    
    <conbody>
        
        <section>
            <title>Instructional video</title>
            <p>This video shows how to upgrade a Note to a newer version in Lyric Studio.</p>
            <p>
                Click the following link to view the instructional video:
                <xref href="https://drive.google.com/file/d/1zuW_noEZMCPAX00QQNDiHX37uCz2XHx8/view?usp=sharing" format="html" scope="external">
                    Note upgrade instructional video
                </xref>
            </p>
        </section>
        
        <section>
            <title>Approach to video creation and scripting</title>
            <p>The instructional video was created using a structured approach that focused on clarity, pacing, and user understanding. The goal was to simulate a realistic product walkthrough while working within the limited set of available screenshots.</p>
        </section>
        
        <section>
            <title>Planning the video</title>
            <p>The process began by reviewing the provided steps for upgrading a Note and identifying the actions that needed to be shown. Since only a small number of screenshots were available, the video was planned to include:</p>
            <ul>
                <li>a short introduction to set context</li>
                <li>step-by-step narration of the workflow</li>
                <li>emphasis on important decision points, such as version selection</li>
                <li>a short closing segment to reinforce the outcome</li>
            </ul>
            <p>A script was created to ensure that the narration stayed aligned with the provided steps and did not introduce unsupported assumptions.</p>
        </section>
        
        <section>
            <title>Creating the visual flow</title>
            <p>To maintain engagement and reach the required duration, supporting visual elements were added around the product screenshots.</p>
            <ul>
                <li><b>Canva</b> was used to create the introduction and closing slides</li>
                <li>stock visuals were used to provide a smooth opening and ending</li>
                <li>screenshots were sequenced to reflect the actual user flow</li>
            </ul>
            <p>This helped create a complete viewing experience while staying aligned with the feature steps.</p>
        </section>
        
        <section>
            <title>Recording and editing</title>
            <p>The video was assembled and refined using editing tools that supported timing, sequencing, and transitions.</p>
            <ul>
                <li><b>Camtasia</b> was used to structure the timeline, place screenshots, and manage the overall flow</li>
                <li><b>Microsoft Clipchamp</b> was used to refine playback timing and improve the final pacing</li>
                <li>transitions and zoom effects were used to guide attention to important areas on the screen</li>
            </ul>
        </section>
        
        <section>
            <title>Voiceover creation</title>
            <p>The narration was developed to make the feature flow easy to follow.</p>
            <ul>
                <li>the voiceover script was prepared based on the provided workflow</li>
                <li><b>Blaster Suite</b> was used to generate the voiceover</li>
                <li>pacing and emphasis were adjusted so each step could be understood clearly</li>
            </ul>
            <p>This helped create a consistent voice and avoid rushed explanations.</p>
        </section>
        
        <section>
            <title>Image refinement</title>
            <p>The screenshots were updated where needed to improve clarity and focus.</p>
            <ul>
                <li><b>Snagit</b> was used to edit screenshots</li>
                <li>key areas were highlighted where necessary</li>
                <li>distracting or unnecessary visual elements were reduced</li>
            </ul>
            <p>This made the screenshots easier to follow during the video.</p>
        </section>
        
        <section>
            <title>Final refinement</title>
            <p>The final video was reviewed to make sure that:</p>
            <ul>
                <li>the narration matched the screenshots</li>
                <li>the sequence followed the actual feature flow</li>
                <li>the pacing felt steady and clear</li>
                <li>the visuals were readable and easy to understand</li>
            </ul>
            <p>The result is a short instructional video that combines screenshots, supporting visuals, narration, and editing to explain the Note Upgrade process in a clear and structured way.</p>
        </section>
        
    </conbody>
</concept>