<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="release_note_format_2">
    <title>Introduction to Bar Chart</title>
    <shortdesc>As part of this release, a Bar chart has been added to the list of available chart
        types in Apps Studio. This feature gives users a visual way to compare values across
        categories and review multiple measures side by side within an interface page.Users can add
        a Bar chart, select fields for the X-axis and Y-axis, and apply basic style changes such as
        chart title, series colors, and labels. This addition helps make category-based data easier
        to review and interpret.</shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <section id="section_yhj_t1c_1jc">
            <title>Impacted Users</title>
            <p>This feature impacts users who:</p>
            <ul id="ul_kbz_v1c_1jc">
                <li>build interface pages in Apps Studio</li>
                <li>configure charts for data visualization</li>
                <li>review category-based data in application pages</li>
            </ul>
        </section>
        <section id="section_t4h_x1c_1jc">
            <title>What has changed?</title>
            <p>Previously, the available chart options did not include a Bar chart for
                category-based comparisons in the flow shown in the assignment material.</p>
            <p>With this release, users can now:<ul id="ul_vnh_1bc_1jc">
                    <li>Add a <b>Bar</b> chart from the <b>Add Chart</b> menu.</li>
                    <li>Enter a chart title using <b>Widget Title</b>.</li>
                    <li>Configure the chart using X-Axis and Y-Axis.</li>
                    <li>Customize the chart by changing series colors.</li>
                    <li>Turn on labels for the chart series.</li>
                    <li>Apply the chart to the interface page.</li>
                </ul></p>
            <p>This makes it easier to compare values across groups such as regions and to view
                multiple measures within the same chart.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_mxr_jbc_1jc">
            <title>How do I do this?</title>
            <p>For step-by-step instructions, refer to the <xref href="how_to_add_bar_chart.dita"/>
                documentation in this site.</p>
        </section>
    </conbody>
</concept>
